# Title

What can one be certain of? The subject has puzzled me for as long as I was able to form ideas, which as I get older turns out to be a shorter and shorter amount of time. Older and maturity or wisdom should be considered synonyms. Every step I take into the future has me yanking along the origin of my idea-forming abilities. Four years ago i might've had some passionate remarks on the subject of love, happiness, willpower, or anything remotely philosophical. Today, the ideas I had then seem trivial, naive, or childish. Today, everything is philosophical, and that's about all I'm certain of.

Our society seems to have tendancies toward disagreement, though the debates of today seem farcry from the debates of past. Perhaps that's a product of having more information at our fingertips. Perhaps, the way we receive news has changed. Years ago if you wanted news you heard it through a nightly broadcast on the radio or television, or you read the paper. Today its the same, there's just N more sources to consider. There's no longer two or three sources for truth, there's an arbitrary amount of sources and because of our past of consuming information from a tiny few, our ability to parse bullshit from truth never developed.

It had developed in the past. Long ago we would take into account a families standing in a community, observed the actions of members of a family, and considered their treatment of our own kin as evidence and support for the power of their word. In short, we learned to trust or distrust, and that took time and experience.

Today we have neither trust nor experience. We are navigating a sea of infromation whose vastness is beyond our comprehension, yet our same toolset is being used. We evaluate trustworthiness and reach conlusions without concern for the ripple that effect that those conclusions might imply. The thing about being in a gargantuan sea is its easy to not consider the ripples we cause. When allt here is is sea, waves don't have the same texture or feel until they crash into your ship.

I always admired older folks when I was a boy. I looked up to their ability to be steadfast in a choice, to backup their reasoning even if all that was behind their reasoning was a feeling. Though today I wonder if that was always just an illusion. As my wisdom swells, my certainty and confidence in that wisdom is berrated by a swallowing stormy sea of information.

My grandfather died at sea. He was a commercial fisherman who had a bit of a reputation for fishing areas that were not sanctioned by authority. They never found his ship nor the bodies of him and his crew. I wonder if he knew the sea he faced before his ship went down. I'm sure the older he got the more he respected the sea and its power, the more his certainty in his ability of navigating the sea grew. That confidence coupled with the seas power cost my grandfather his life and the lives of seven others. It cost my mother some emotional stunting that she continues to battle today. It cost my grandmother a partner in life. It cost the local grocery store revenue, their sixty pounders of whiskey gathering dust in the absence of their once-upon-a-time soon-to-be surogate father. The Scotia Cape and its captain fell pray to the sea and it makes you wonder, if you let yourself wonder, do you know the sea? What kind of a captain are you, really? What do you know and how do you know you know it? Ripples on ripples in my grandfather's gargantuan grave generate towering waves that erase men. What kind of ripples are you creating with your words, your thoughts? How well do you know the sea? The captain of the Scotia Cape thought he knew it well, turned his radar off to head into water where men were not to go. You might say that was foolish, that he let his confidence blind him. How blind are you?