---
toc: false
layout: post
description: Pay attention
categories: []
title: The Simple Superhighway
---

`If you find yourself repeating what everyone else is saying, you're not going to have a good life` - Jim Keller

There's some chunk of life that is devoted to pumping energy into finding yourself. Another chunk, dependent on that first chunk, is devoted to finding where you fit in. Most don't spend a lot of time thinking of either, which seems to result in carbon copies of folks.

When you're talking to someone new, ever had that feeling of 'you remind me of someone I know'? That's usually a sign you're not talking to someone original.

Which is fine. There's lots of roles to fill in this life and the vast majority doesn't need to fit into some obscure, uber meaningful-to-the-big-picture type of role. We need grocery store clerks. We need traffic conductors. Some think we need judges, lawyers, and record company executives.

There's nothing inherently wrong with turning your brain off and to some degree it can be a more satisfying, comfortable existence than earnestly applying yourself. But at some point you might find yourself dissatisfied. Then what do you do?

Well, you start thinking. About what? Doesn't matter, just start thinking for yourself. The key to a meaningful life is to avoid being a passenger of your own mind. Folks that regurgitate information without some questioning of the information flow are running on autopilot. The information literally flows into their ear and directly out of there mouth. Almost like there was never a brain between the two. Call this the Simple Superhighway.

The Simple Superhighway creates an ultra efficient transmission of information. Straight shot from the eardrumb to the tongue, the Simple Superhighway is an autopilot's wet dream. No pit stops in small, nuanced towns. No traffic jams. Just straight-shots, fastfood, and the odd rest area.

Which is kind of interesting, right. If you never process some information in your brain, as in, let the ideas saturate in your mind to the point where you start asking questions about them, it's like the ideas never actually entered your brain. As a result, the small towns in your mind that are unique and intricate in there shape and culture slowly die. Your mind becomes littered with history, void of prescence, ghost-towns abundant.

It's those small towns that allow you to cultivate who you are. People who seem like other people have let those pieces of themselves disolve, until all that is left is a string of used-to-be towns and a big ugly highway running by.

You're taking your brain for granted. Everyone is. Start using it. Take a back road. Have a conversation where you pause for three seconds before replying. At first, you'll be blankly pausing, before starting up the motor of your mouth. But in time, your brain will stop working like a lubed up, static machine, and morph into a creative center swirling with originality and hope.